>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, OCTOBER 2:
REVELATIONS ABOUT DONALD TRUMP'S
TAX HISTORY, AS THE PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES BATTLE FOR UNDECIDED
VOTERS.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, THE
CHANGING DEMOGRAPHICS OF THE
LATINO VOTE IN FLORIDA.
>> OUR STAFF IS VERY MUCH AWARE
THAT THE WORK THAT WE DO IS
GOING TO IMPACT THIS ELECTION.
I MEAN, OUR WORK IS GOING TO
DETERMINE WHO THE NEXT PRESIDENT
IS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT, ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES HILLARY
CLINTON AND DONALD TRUMP ARE
FOCUSING ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY ON
THE CLOSEST BATTLEGROUND STATES
IN NEXT MONTH'S ELECTION.
CLINTON CAMPAIGNED IN NORTH
CAROLINA TODAY AND TALKED ABOUT
GUN VIOLENCE AT A PREDOMINANTLY
BLACK CHURCH IN CHARLOTTE,
TELLING THE CONGREGATION:
"PROTECTING ALL OF GOD'S
CHILDREN IS AMERICA'S CALLING."
CLINTON SUPPORTS STRICTER
BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR GUN
BUYERS.
TRUMP DOES NOT.
AND SPEAKING TO SUPPORTERS AT A
RALLY IN PENNSYLVANIA LAST
NIGHT, TRUMP PROMISED TO PROTECT
THE SECOND AMENDMENT RIGHT TO
BEAR ARMS.
HE LATER MOCKED CLINTON'S
STAMINA, INCLUDING WHEN SHE FELL
ILL WITH PNEUMONIA LAST MONTH
AND NEEDED HELP LEAVING NEW
YORK'S 9/11 ANNIVERSARY CEREMONY
EARLY.
>> BUT HERE'S A WOMAN.
SHE'S SUPPOSED TO FIGHT ALL OF
THESE DIFFERENT THINGS, AND SHE
CAN'T MAKE IT 15 FEET TO HER
CAR.
GIVE ME A BREAK.
>> Sreenivasan: TRUMP'S RUNNING
MATE FOR VICE PRESIDENT, INDIANA
GOVERNOR MIKE PENCE, AND
CLINTON'S RUNNING MATE, VIRGINIA
SENATOR TIM KAINE, FACE OFF IN
THEIR ONE TELEVISED DEBATE ON
TUESDAY IN VIRGINIA.
TRUMP AND CLINTON MEET ON THE
DEBATE STAGE AGAIN NEXT SUNDAY
IN ST. LOUIS.
DONALD TRUMP IS THE FIRST MAJOR
PARTY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IN
40 YEARSNOTTO RELEASE ANY TAX
RETURNS FOR PUBLIC REVIEW.
BUT THAT HAS NOT STOPPED
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTERS FROM
DIGGING THROUGH THE CANDIDATE'S
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE FORMS,
COURT RECORDS, CASINO COMMISSION
FILINGS, AND OTHER AVAILABLE
DOCUMENTS TO FIGURE OUT TRUMP'S
NET WORTH AND HIS INCOME.
TODAY, THE "NEW YORK TIMES"
PUBLISHED AN ANALYSIS OF PART OF
ONE TRUMP TAX RETURN, FROM 1995,
WHERE THE BILLIONAIRE DECLARED
BUSINESS LOSSES SO LARGE, THE
RETURN SUGGESTS, TRUMP MAY HAVE
AVOIDED PAYING ANY FEDERAL
INCOME TAXES FOR 18 YEARS.
JOINING ME NOW TO EXPLAIN ALL
THIS IS ONE OF THE ARTICLE'S
AUTHORS, DAVID BARSTOW.
THIS IS A TEAM EFFORT AT THE
"NEW YORK TIMES," THREE OR FOUR
PEOPLE WORKED ON THIS.
HOW DO WE KNOW FROM YOU JUST
HAVE BASICALLY THREE DOCUMENTS
THAT YOU'VE MADE PUBLIC.
HOW DO WE KNOW THAT HE DECLARED
THIS LOSS AND IT COULD HAVE
IMPACTED HIS INCOME GOING
FORWARD.
>> WELL, WE TOOK A NUMBER OF
STEPS, FIRST OF ALL THE
DOCUMENTS WERE MAILED TO US
ANONYMOUSLY, AND SO WE SPENT AN
AWFUL LOT OF TIME AND EFFORT
TRYING TO AUTHENTICATE THE
DOCUMENTS.
WE FINALLY SUCCEEDED IN DOING
THAT AND WE WERE ABLE TO PRESENT
THEM TO DONALD TRUMP'S TAX
ACCOUNTANT AT THE TIME, THE MAN
WHO HAD SPENT 30 YEARS OR MORE
DOING DONALD TRUMP'S TAXES.
AND AFTER TALKING TO HIM AT
LENGTH AND DOING SOME ADDITIONAL
REPORTING, WE CAME TO BELIEVE
THAT THESE WERE INDEED THE REAL
THING.
AND ALSO, TODAY I BELIEVE, THE
TRUMP CAMPAIGN HAS EFFECTIVELY
CONFIRMED THE VALIDITY OF THESE
RETURNS.
HAVEN'T CHALLENGED ANY OF THE
MEMBERS, IN FACT HIS SURROGATES
ARE SAYING THAT THIS SHOWS HIS
GENIUS AT FIGURING OUT HOW TO
AVOID PAYING TAXES.
BUT IN LOOKING CAREFULLY THAT
THESE THREE PAGES WHICH TO BE
SURE ARE JUST A TINY PORTION OF
WHAT A DONALD TRUMP TAX RETURN
WOULD LOOK LIKE, WE'RE ABLE TO
SEE THAT HE SHOWED THIS ENORMOUS
LOSS OF ROUGHLY $916 MILLION IN
1995, AND THAT UNDER IRS TAX
RULES THEN IN EFFECT, HE COULD
USE SOME IMPORTANT PROVISIONS OF
THE CODE TO APPLY THAT LOSS
AGAINST ANOTHER $916 MILLION IN
TAXABLE INCOME.
ONE OF THE TAX EXPERTS EXPLAINED
TO US IF ONE OF HIS CLIENTS
BROUGHT HIM A TAX RETURN THAT
LOOKED LIKE THIS IN 1995, HE
WOULD BE SAYING TO HIM
CONGRATULATIONS, YOU CAN MAKE
$916 MILLION AND NOT PAY A
SINGLE NICKEL IN TAXES ON THIS.
IT'S NOT TO SAY THAT DONALD
TRUMP DID ANYTHING ILLEGAL OR
IMPROPER, IT'S REALLY ABOUT HIM,
THE TREMENDOUS TAX ADVANTAGES
THAT APPLY TO A WEALTHY FATHER
LIKE DONALD TRUMP.
>> Reporter: HE CONSIDERS IT
SMART AS HE SAID IN THE DEBATE,
HE FIGURED OUT A WAY TO STAY
WITHIN THE RULES AND MINIMIZE
THE TAX AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
>> YES >> Reporter: SO THERE'S
NOTHING IN AT LEAST THREE THESE
HE THREE PAGES THAT INDICATE ANY
ILLEGALITY.
>> CORRECT.
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE HAPPENED HERE
IS IN THE EARLY 1990'S, DONALD
TRUMP CAME PERILOUSLY CLOSE
TO COMPLETE DISASTER IN HIS
BUSINESS AFFAIRS.
WHAT IT APPEARS HAPPENED IS THAT
THE LOSSES THAT HIS BUSINESSES
WERE SUFFERING THROUGH THE
VARIOUS TAX PROVISIONS THAT WE
DESCRIBE TODAY, ALLOWED THOSE
LOSSES TO EFFECTIVELY FLOW ON TO
HIS PERSONAL INCOME TAX FORM.
WHICH THEN WOULD ALLOW HIM FOR
UP TO 18 YEARS UNDER IRS TAX
RULES TO APPLY AS A WAY OF
WIPING OUT ANY POTENTIAL TAX
DEBT FOR SAY, FOR EXAMPLE, HIM
HOSTING THE APPRENTICE.
HE DIDN'T PAY 50 TO A HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS PER EPISODE,
THAT COULD BE CANCELED OUT.
MADE ANOTHER $45 MILLION RUNNING
HIS CASINO COMPANIES.
THAT COULD TAX FREE >>
Reporter: THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
IN THEIR STATEMENT AND I WANT TO
READ THIS OUT FULLY SAYS
MR. TRUMP IS A HIGHLY 1KEU8D
BUSINESSMAN WHO HAS A FIDUCIARY
RESPONSIBILITY TO HIS FAMILY AND
EMPLOYEES TO PAY NO MORE TAX
THAN LEGALLY REQUIRED.
THAT BEING SAID MR. TRUMP HAS
PAID HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN SALES AND EXCISE
TAXES, CITY TAXES, STATE TAXES,
EMPLOYEE TAXES ALONG WITH
VARIOUS CHARITABLE
CONTRIBUTIONS.
HE KNOWS THE TAX CODE THAN
ANYONE EVER RUN FOR PRESIDENT
AND HE'S THE ONLY ONE WHO KNOWS
HOW TO FIX IT.
SO WHEN YOU TALK TO THE TAX
EXPERTS IS THIS TRUE BUSINESS
ACUMEN ON HIS PART.
>> TALKING TO DONALD TRUMP'S
ACCOUNTANT THE MAN WHO PREPARED
THIS TAX RETURN IS HE EXPLAINED
DONALD TRUMP UNDERSTOOD VERY
WELL THE WAY THE TAX CODE COULD
BE USED TO PROTECT HIS WEALTH
AND HELP HIS WEALTH GROW.
AND HE SAID AS WELL THAT THE WAY
DONALD TRUMP USED VARIOUS TAX
DEDUCTIONS PROVISIONS ETCETERA
ISN'T DIFFERENT FROM THE WAY
OTHER REALLY WEALTHY REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPERS IN NEW YORK MIGHT
HAVE USED THOSE DEDUCTIONS.
THE DIFFERENCE IS HIS JUST HAD A
FEW MORE DIGITS.
>> Reporter: DAVID BAR TOE
PART OF THE "NEW YORK TIMES"
TEAM PUBLISHED THREE PAGES OF
DONALD TRUMP'S TAX TERMS FOR
1995.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Sreenivasan: AS USUAL,
FLORIDA IS THE BATTLEGROUND
STATE WITH THE MOST ELECTORAL
VOTES UP FOR GRABS IN THIS
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
WHILE NORTH FLORIDA, ANCHORED BY
JACKSONVILLE, LEANS REPUBLICAN,
AND SOUTH FLORIDA, ANCHORED BY
MIAMI, LEANS DEMOCRATIC, CENTRAL
FLORIDA IS CONSIDERED THE SWING
REGION, PARTICULARLY THE SWATH
RUNNING FROM TAMPA TO ORLANDO
KNOWN AS THE INTERSTATE-4
CORRIDOR.
ONE CONSTITUENCY THERE GETTING A
LOT OF ATTENTION FROM THE
CANDIDATES ARE LATINO VOTERS,
WHO COMPRISE 15% OF REGISTERED
VOTERS IN FLORIDA.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S IVETTE
FELICIANO REPORTS ON THEIR TOP
ISSUES.
>> Reporter: ON A TUESDAY
MORNING JUST SOUTH OF ORLANDO,
IN KISSIMMEE, FLORIDA, THESE
CANVASSERS ARE REGISTERING
VOTERS OUTSIDE THE UNIDOS
SUPERMARKET, ON BEHALF OF "MI
FAMILIA VOTA," OR "MY FAMILY
VOTES," A CIVIC ENGAGEMENT
ORGANIZATION FOCUSED ON
INCREASING LATINO POLITICAL
POWER IN THE UNITED STATES.
JEAMY RAMIREZ HAS BEEN WORKING
TO EDUCATE HER FELLOW LATINO
VOTERS SINCE MOVING TO THE CITY
FROM PUERTO RICO FOUR YEARS AGO.
>> HERE, YOU CAN VOTE ON
ELECTION DAY, OR YOU CAN DO
EARLY VOTE WHICH IS LIKE SEVEN
OR TEN DAYS BEFORE THE ELECTION.
YOU CAN MAIL IN YOUR VOTE.
MANY WAYS TO PARTICIPATE.
>> Reporter: LATINOS ACCOUNT FOR
HALF OF FLORIDA'S POPULATION
GROWTH SINCE 2010, AND ARE
ONE QUARTER OF THE STATE'S
20 MILLION RESIDENTS.
THE FASTEST LATINO GROWTH HAS
OCCURRED IN THE COUNTIES ALONG
THE I-4 CORRIDOR, FROM ORANGE,
OSCEOLA AND SEMINOLE, AROUND
ORLANDO, TO POLK AND
HILLSBOROUGH COUNTIES, AROUND
TAMPA.
ESTEBAN GARCES IS "MI FAMILIA
VOTA'S" STATE DIRECTOR, ON THIS
DAY, LEADING A REGISTRATION
DRIVE AT VALENCIA COLLEGE.
>> THE OCTOBER 11 DEADLINE IS
NOW JUST A FEW DAYS AWAY, SO
IT'S ALL GEARS, ALL SYSTEMS
RUNNING.
>> Reporter: ONLY 74,000 VOTES
DECIDED FLORIDA'S 2012
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
GARCES SAYS BECAUSE ABOUT
500,000 ELIGIBLE LATINOS ARE NOT
REGISTERED TO VOTE IN THE
STATE,"
MI FAMILIA VOTA" IS IN THE
FIELD EVERY DAY.
>> OUR STAFF IS VERY MUCH AWARE
THAT THE WORK THAT WE DO IS
GOING TO IMPACT THIS ELECTION.
OUR WORK IS GOING TO DETERMINE
WHO THE NEXT PRESIDENT IS.
>> Reporter: SINCE JANUARY,"
MI FAMILIA VOTA" HAS REGISTERED
MORE THAN 27,000 NEW LATINO
RESIDENTS.
44-YEAR-OLD ARMY VETERAN ERIC
PEGUERO EMBODIES THE AMBIVALENCE
MANY LATINOS FEEL TOWARD THE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.
A REGISTERED REPUBLICAN WHO
CALLS HIMSELF A MODERATE
CONSERVATIVE, PEGUERO VOTED FOR
MARCO RUBIO IN THE REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY, BUT SAYS
THAT SUPPORT DOES NOT EXTEND TO
DONALD TRUMP.
A SON OF IMMIGRANTS FROM THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND MARRIED
TO A WOMAN FROM GUATEMALA,
PEGUERO SAYS IMMIGRATION REFORM
IS HIS TOP CONCERN.
BUT HE REJECTS TRUMP'S CALL TO
BUILD A WALL ALONG THE U.S.-
MEXICO BORDER, AND TRACK DOWN
AND DEPORT UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS.
>> I DON'T AGREE WITH OBAMACARE,
OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT, BUT GOING
TO THE REPUBLICAN NOMINEE IS
LUDICROUS.
SIMPLY, YOU CAN'T COUNT ON
ANYTHING HE SAYS.
ONE, I DO BELIEVE IN IMMIGRATION
REFORM, BUT I DON'T BELIEVE WE
CAN BUILT A WALL.
TWO, WE CAN'T DEPORT 11 MILLION
PEOPLE, AND NOT ALL OF THEM ARE
CRIMINALS.
>> Reporter: PEGUERO SAYS HE
PLANS TO VOTE FOR HILLARY
CLINTON, BECAUSE HE SEES HER AS
MORE DIPLOMATIC AND BETTER
EQUIPPED TO HANDLE THE ECONOMY.
>> WE HAVE TO SEE THAT THE
ECONOMY IS WORKING, AND I THINK
SOMEONE LIKE HILLARY CLINTON
THAT'S BEEN RUNNING FOR 30 YEARS
HAS THAT KIND OF EXPERIENCE, AND
CAN MAKE SOMETHING HAPPEN
REALISTICALLY.
I DON'T THINK JUST BECAUSE YOU
HAVE BUSINESS EXPERIENCE, THAT
TRANSLATES INTO GOVERNMENT
EXPERIENCE, BECAUSE YOU DON'T
TELL THE CONGRESS WHAT TO DO,
YOU HAVE TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE
CONGRESS TO GET IT DONE.
>> Reporter: PEGUERO'S VIEWS ARE
TYPICAL OF CLINTON SUPPORTERS,
AND HELP EXPLAIN WHY SHE IS
PREFERRED BY THE MAJORITY OF
FLORIDA LATINOS, ACCORDING TO A
RECENT "UNIVISION" POLL, WHICH
ALSO FOUND HER WITH WIDER LEADS
AMONG LATINOS IN THE LATINO-
HEAVY BATTLEGROUND STATES OF
ARIZONA, COLORADO, AND NEVADA.
LUIS MARTINEZ FERNANDEZ, A CUBAN
IMMIGRANT WHO GREW UP IN PUERTO
RICO, IS A HISTORY PROFESSOR AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL
FLORIDA.
>> AS FAR AS A BLOC, I'VE BEEN
SAYING FOR MANY YEARS THAT
THERE'S NO SUCH THING.
FOR ONE, A BLOC IS SORT OF SOLID
AND IMMOVABLE.
HOWEVER, WHEN IT COMES TO THE
HISPANIC VOTE IN FLORIDA, WE SEE
THAT IT SWAYS FROM ELECTION TO
ELECTION.
>> Reporter: FOR DECADES, CUBAN-
AMERICANS IN SOUTH FLORIDA WERE
THE FACE OF THE STATE'S LATINO
VOTE, AND THEY WERE RELIABLY
REPUBLICAN, SUPPORTING RONALD
REAGAN AND BOTH PRESIDENTS BUSH.
YET BY 2012, BARRACK OBAMA SPLIT
THE CUBAN VOTE WITH MITT ROMNEY.
>> WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A
GENERATION THAT CONTINUES TO DIE
OFF, AND THAT MAKES THEM WEAKER.
WEAKER, IN TERMS OF THEIR
POLITICAL PRESENCE.
>> Reporter: FERNANDEZ SAYS A
YOUNGER GENERATION OF CUBAN-
AMERICANS AND NEW WAVES OF CUBAN
IMMIGRANTS LESS WEDDED TO
ANTI-CASTRO, ANTI-COMMUNIST
SENTIMENTS HAS ECLIPSED THE
OLDER GENERATION, AND ARE
INCREASINGLY SUPPORTIVE OF
DEMOCRATS.
ADDING TO THE SHIFTS, ABOUT
1,000 PUERTO RICAN FAMILIES,
U.S. CITIZENS WITH AN AUTOMATIC
RIGHT TO VOTE, ARRIVE IN THE I-4
CORRIDOR REGION EVERY MONTH--
LEAVING THE ISLAND'S ECONOMIC
AND DEBT CRISIS THAT HAS DRIVEN
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE THERE TO
11%.
MORE THAN HALF OF ORLANDO'S
LATINO POPULATION IS PUERTO
RICAN.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT ALL THE
HISPANIC SUBGROUPS, THE ONE THAT
LEANS DEMOCRATIC AT THE HIGHEST
RATE ARE PUERTO RICANS.
>> Reporter: FERNANDEZ SAYS
WHILE IMMIGRATION REFORM IS A
HIGH PRIORITY AMONG LATINOS
GENERALLY, IT'S LESS OF A
PRIORITY FOR PUERTO RICANS, WHO
ARE U.S. CITIZENS, AND CUBANS,
WHOSE LEGAL RESIDENCY
APPLICATIONS ARE FAST TRACKED.
>> NOW, THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
THEY'RE NOT SENSITIVE TO THESE
ISSUES; THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
WE'RE NOT OFFENDED WHEN FELLOW
LATINOS FROM MEXICO ARE CALLED
FRIGHTENING NAMES AND ARE
INSULTED.
SO IT DOESN'T MEAN A LACK OF
SENSITIVITY.
WHAT IT MEANS IS THAT THERE ARE
DIFFERENT PRIORITIES.
>> Reporter: THE TOP PRIORITIES
FOR FLORIDA'S LATINO VOTERS ARE
THE ECONOMY AND JOBS, FOLLOWED
BY IMMIGRATION, EDUCATION,
TERRORISM, AND HEALTHCARE.
AFTER LOSING HIS JOB IN PUERTO
RICO, 34-YEAR-OLD JEZREEL
ZAPATA-MORENO MOVED TO THE
ORLANDO AREA IN JULY AND NOW
WORKS AS A CASHIER AT
KISSIMMEE'S MELAO BAKERY, A
POPULAR PUERTO RICAN RESTAURANT.
>> (translated): SADLY, THE
SITUATION IN PUERTO RICO HAS
BEEN VERY DIFFICULT, AND THAT'S
WHY SO MANY OF US ARE MOVING
HERE.
WE'RE IN SEARCH OF A PLACE WHERE
WE CAN PROSPER ECONOMICALLY AND
WHERE OUR KIDS CAN RECEIVE
QUALITY EDUCATION.
>> Reporter: ECONOMIC PROSPERITY
AND UPWARD MOBILITY ARE THE
TALKING POINTS OF THE
CONSERVATIVE LATINO POLITICAL
GROUP "THE LIBRE INITIATIVE."
THE GROUP'S VOLUNTEERS ARE
PHONE BANKING DAILY TO IDENTIFY
AND URGE CONSERVATIVE-LEANING
LATINOS TO VOTE.
DANIEL GARZA IS THE
ORGANIZATION'S EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR.
>> YOU HAVE AN INFLUX OF PUERTO
RICANS THAT ARE LEAVING THAT
ECONOMIC CONDITION IN PUERTO
RICO, NOT BECAUSE THEY WANT TO,
BUT BECAUSE THEY HAVE TO.
WHAT YOU SEE IN PUERTO RICO IS
STARTING TO HAPPEN HERE.
WE'RE ON AN UNSUSTAINABLE PATH,
A FISCAL PATH HERE THAT IS GOING
TO RUIN THE NEXT GENERATION.
IT'S IMPORTANT FOR US TO DRIVE
THAT CONVERSATION WITHIN THE
PUERTO RICAN COMMUNITY HERE IN
ORLANDO, BECAUSE THEY CAN MAKE A
DIFFERENCE.
>> Reporter: THE CURRENT
REPUBLICAN NOMINEE HAS SAID SOME
PRETTY CONTROVERSIAL THINGS
ABOUT IMMIGRANT COMMUNITIES
LATINO COMMUNITIES.
>> TO SAY THE LEAST.
>> Reporter: ARE YOU WORRIED AT
ALL ABOUT WHAT THAT MEANS FOR
CONSERVATIVE CANDIDATES?
>> LOOK, WE ARE PART OF A LONG-
TERM EFFORT.
WE FOCUS ON IDEAS.
WE DON'T WANT TO SEE OUR GROWTH
RISE AND FALL BASED ON
PERSONALITY.
SO WE STAY AWAY FROM ASSOCIATING
TO PERSONALITIES WHO WE FEEL
THERE'S A LACK OF ENTHUSIASM
AROUND BY THE LATINO VOTERS.
WE SEE A LACK OF ENTHUSIASM
AROUND BOTH CANDIDATES, TO BE
HONEST.
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT OBAMA
CARRIED FLORIDA IN BOTH THE LAST
TWO ELECTIONS.
ONE REASON: HE WON 57% OF THE
STATE'S LATINO VOTE IN 2008 AND
60% IN 2012.
CLINTON'S SUPPORT IS NOT AS
HIGH, AROUND 53%.
BUT SHE HAS A BUILT-IN
ADVANTAGE-- 38% OF FLORIDA
LATINOS ARE REGISTERED AS
DEMOCRATS AND 26% AS
REPUBLICANS.
INDEPENDENTS ARE THE FASTEST
GROWING CONTINGENT, AND MAKE UP
33%
>> WHEN WE CAME FROM PUERTO
RICO, I DID NOT UNDERSTAND THE
IDEOLOGIES OF THE PARTY.
I DID NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT IT
MEANT TO BE A REPUBLICAN OR A
DEMOCRAT.
>> Reporter: BROOKLYN-BORN AND
PUERTO RICO-RAISED BOB CORTES
REGISTERED AS AN INDEPENDENT
WHEN HE FIRST MOVED HIS FAMILY
TO FLORIDA 27 YEARS AGO AND
FOUNDED A TOWING COMPANY AND
AIRPORT PASSENGER SHUTTLE
SERVICE.
HE'S A REPUBLICAN NOW, AND THE
FIRST PUERTO RICAN FROM HIS
DISTRICT TO WIN A SEAT IN THE
STATE LEGISLATURE.
>> A LOT OF MY FELLOW PUERTO
RICANS LEAN WITH THE IDEOLOGY OF
REPUBLICANS BECAUSE WE'RE
FLEEING AN ISLAND RIGHT NOW THAT
IS $70 BILLION IN DEBT.
WITH A SIZE OF GOVERNMENT TOO
BIG.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IS FISCAL
CONSERVATIVE AND WANTS A SMALLER
GOVERNMENT.
WE HAVE OF COURSE THE PRO-LIFE
ISSUE-- I'M EXTREMELY PRO-LIFE.
>> Reporter: CORTES BELIEVES
CANDIDATES LIKE HIM WITH
SOCIALLY CONSERVATIVE VALUES CAN
IMPROVE REPUBLICANS' STANDING
WITH LATINOS, WHO ARE
PREDOMINANTLY CATHOLIC AND
EVANGELICAL.
AS A BUSINESSMAN HIMSELF, CORTES
ALSO SUPPORTS TRUMP FOR
PRESIDENT, WHOSE MESSAGE ALIGNS
WITH HIS OWN PLATFORM PROMOTING
JOB CREATION AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP.
>> WHEN I GO OUT TO SPEAK TO
SOMEBODY, WHETHER THEY'RE PUERTO
RICAN, HISPANIC OR FROM SOUTH
AMERICA, CENTRAL AMERICA OR
MEXICAN, I CAN RELATE TO THEIR
STORIES OF WHAT BROUGHT THEM
HERE.
BECAUSE I CAME HERE 20-SOMETHING
YEARS AGO, LOOKING FOR THE SAME
THINGS THAT THEY'RE LOOKING FOR,
THE AMERICAN DREAM, AND I
ACTUALLY CAN GIVE THEM SOME
INSIGHT ON HOW I DID IT AND
WHERE I AM TODAY.
THE MESSAGING HAS TO COME FROM
THE CANDIDATE THEMSELVES, TO
MAKE SURE THAT LATINOS VOTE FOR
CANDIDATES, NOT NECESSARILY FOR
PARTIES, WHICH IS WHY WE'RE SUCH
A SWING VOTING GROUP.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE
ANALYSIS OF THE PRESIDENTIAL
RACE IN FLORIDA, I AM JOINED
FROM TAMPA BAY BY SUSAN
MacMANUS, A POLITICAL SCIENCE
PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
SOUTH FLORIDA.
SO, WHAT DO THESE CAP DATES HAVE
TO DO TO WIN THAT GIANT PRIZE
LOOKING IN THE TAMPA BAY AREA.
>> THE CORRIDOR IS 44% OF THE
REGISTER VOTERS OF THE STATE AND
ORLANDO AND TAMPA MEDIA MARKETS
TOGETHER DO CONTROL OR CAN HAVE
44% OF THE VOTERS.
BUT IT'S ALSO TRUE THAT THOSE
TWO MARKETS ARE ALMOST EVENLY
DIVIDED BETWEEN THE PERCENT
REGISTERED DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS AND A LITTLE BIT
ABOVE AVERAGE PERCENTAGE OF NO
PARTY AFFILIATION.
THE NO PARTY AFFILIATION PEOPLE
IN FLORIDA NOW MAKE UP 24% OF
THE ELECTORATE.
SO IT'S JUST A VERY VERY
COMPETITIVE GEOGRAPHY.
WE CALL THE I4 CORRIDOR THE
HIGHWAY TO HEAVEN OR HADES NO
MATTER WHETHER YOU WIN OR LOSE
BUT IF YOU TRAVERSE IT YOU'RE
NOT GOING TO WIN FLORIDA.
>> Reporter: I THINK THE REST
WILL BE FINE WITH JUST THE
CAMPAIGNING HAPPEN THING THERE
AND JUST TAKE THE CAMPAIGN ADS
OFF.
DOES IT COME DOWN TO THE ECONOMY
AS IT IS IN SO MANY PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY AS THE NUMBER ONE ISSUE.
>> IT'S A HUGE ISSUE, YES T THE
POLLS HERE STILL SHOW THAT'S THE
CONCERN OF MOST PEOPLE.
AND THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER OF
STUDIES RECENTLY WHICH SHOW THE
HIGH PERCENTAGE OF FLORIDIANS
WHO ONLY MAKE AN AVERAGE OR
BELOW AVERAGE WAGES IN TERMS OF
THE AVERAGE SALARY FOR THIS
STATE.
AND POLLS ARE ALSO SHOW THAT A
LARGE PERCENTAGE STILL SAY THAT
THEY ARE FEELING SOME STRESS IN
THEIR LIVES FINANCIALLY.
I OFTEN LOOK AT WHEN GAUGING
PEOPLE'S OPINION ABOUT THE
ECONOMY SIMPLE THINGS LIKE HOW
ARE YOU DOING AND THEY'LL SAY
SO-SO INSTEAD OF SAY YOU NOTICE
ANY INCREASES IN THINGS THAT
REALLY AFFECT YOUR BOTTOM LINE
AND ALMOST ALWAYS A VERY GOOD
BENCHMARK IS GROCERIES AND
GROCERY PRICES HAVE GONE UP.
A LOT OF OTHER THING ARE
IMPORTANT TOO BESIDES THE
ECONOMY.
THE ENVIRONMENT WE'VE HAD THE
ZIKA EPISODE, WE'VE HAD THE
ALGAE BLOOM, WE'VE HAD PROBLEMS
WITH LAKE OKEECHOBEE AND THE
EVERGLADES AND SEA LEVEL RISES
IN SOUTH FLORIDA.
AND OF COURSE THE CLIMATE AND
THE ENVIRONMENT ITSELF ARE
ABSOLUTELY CLOSELY LINKED WITH
FLORIDA'S ECONOMY.
SO THIS STATE IS ONE WHERE EVEN
THOUGH WE'VE RECOVERED ON PAPER
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
REALLY PERSONALLY DON'T FEEL
THAT THEY HAVE BENEFITED FROM
THE CHANGING ECONOMY.
>> Reporter: ALL RIGHT.
SUSAN MCMANUS FROM THE
UNIVERSITY O
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: HURRICANE
MATTHEW, THE MOST POWERFUL
ATLANTIC HURRICANE IN A DECADE,
IS CLOSING IN ON HAITI, JAMAICA,
CUBA, AND THE BAHAMAS WITH WINDS
PEAKING AT 150 MILES AN HOUR.
AS CUBAN PRESIDENT RAUL CASTRO
OVERSAW PREPARATIONS ON THE
ISLAND, TODAY THE U.S. MILITARY
ORDERED FAMILY MEMBERS AT THE
NAVAL BASE AT GUANTANAMO, CUBA,
TO EVACUATE.
OFFICIALS IN JAMAICA URGED
RESIDENTS TO TAKE REFUGE IN
GOVERNMENT SHELTERS, AS PEOPLE
CROWDED SUPERMARKETS TO STOCK
UP.
HURRICANE MATTHEW COULD MAKE
LANDFALL IN JAMAICA AND HAITI
TOMORROW.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY
BOARD OFFICIALS SAY THE SIGNALS
WERE WORKING PROPERLY AT THE
HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY, TRAIN
STATION WHERE A COMMUTER TRAIN
CRASHED LAST THURSDAY.
ONE PERSON DIED, AND MORE THAN
100 WERE INJURED WHEN THE TRAIN
BARRELED INTO THE TERMINAL.
INVESTIGATORS SAY THEY HAVE
INTERVIEWED THE TRAIN'S ENGINEER
AND ARE ANALYZING ONE DATA
RECORDER WITH SPEED AND BRAKING
INFORMATION RECOVERED FROM THE
REAR LOCOMOTIVE.
BRITISH PRIME MINISTER THERESA
MAY SAYS SHE'LL TRIGGER THE
U.K.'S FORMAL EXIT FROM THE
EUROPEAN UNION BY THE END OF
NEXT MARCH.
MAY TOLD HER CONSERVATIVE
PARTY'S ANNUAL CONFERENCE TODAY
BY THEN SHE'LL INVOKE ARTICLE 50
OF THE E.U. TREATY TO SET IN
MOTION WHAT WILL BE LEAST TWO
YEARS OF NEGOTIATIONS.
THE U.K. VOTED TO EXIT THE E.U.
IN A REFERENDUM IN JUNE.
A CATHOLIC CHURCH IN NORMANDY,
FRANCE, WHERE TWO ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS KILLED A PRIEST LAST
JULY, RE-OPENED FOR WORSHIP
TODAY.
AFTER A PROCESSION AND SPECIAL
CEREMONY TO RESTORE THE SACRED
NATURE OF THE CHURCH, THE
ARCHBISHOP OF ROUEN LED A MASS
FOR THE RETURNING PARISHIONERS.
THE TWO EXTREMISTS, WHO HELD
NUNS AND PARISHIONERS HOSTAGE
DURING THEIR ATTACK, WERE KILLED
THAT DAY BY POLICE.
THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: MILLIONS OF
COLOMBIANS VOTED IN A REFERENDUM
TODAY, ON ENDING THE
GOVERNMENT'S 52-YEAR WAR WITH
THE MARXIST REBEL GROUP KNOWN AS
FARC.
COLUMBIA IS EXPECTED TO APPROVE
THE PEACE ACCORD, SIGNED LAST
WEEK BY PRESIDENT JUAN MANUEL
SANTOS AND THE FARC LEADER.
IT CALLS FOR FARC'S 7,000
FIGHTERS TO TURN IN THEIR
WEAPONS AND LETS FARC FORM A
POLITICAL PARTY TO TRY TO WIN
POWER AT THE BALLOT BOX.
THE U.S. HAS LONG CONSIDERED
FARC A TERRORIST GROUP, FOR
FUNDING OPERATIONS THROUGH THE
ILLEGAL DRUG TRADE AND
KIDNAPPINGS.
THE SYRIAN ARMY SAYS THEY ARE
OFFERING SAFE PASSAGE OUT OF THE
BESIEGED CITY OF ALEPPO TO ANY
REBELS WHO LAY DOWN THEIR ARMS
AND AGREE TO EVACUATE THE CITY.
NO WORD YET ON WHETHER ANY REBEL
GROUPS HAVE ACCEPTED.
SIMULTANEOUSLY, SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT SOLDIERS, BACKED BY
RUSSIAN WARPLANES CONTINUED
THEIR OFFENSIVE TODAY IN
EASTERN, REBEL-HELD ALEPPO.
THE UNITED NATIONS SAYS SOME
275,000 PEOPLE ARE TRAPPED THERE
WITH FOOD AND WATER IN SHORT
SUPPLY.
THE U.N. ALSO SAYS AT LEAST
320 CIVILIANS IN ALEPPO HAVE
BEEN KILLED OVER THE LAST TEN
DAYS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
AND RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
SERGEI LAVROV DISCUSSED THE
SITUATION TODAY, AS BRITISH
FOREIGN MINISTER BORIS JOHNSON
SAID THE AIRSTRIKES AGAINST
HOSPITALS IN ALEPPO ARE WAR
CRIMES, THAT MAKE PEACE TALKS
IMPOSSIBLE.
IN ETHIOPIA, A MASSIVE RELIGIOUS
FESTIVAL TURNED DEADLY TODAY
WHEN POLICE FIRED TEAR GAS AND
RUBBER BULLETS TO DISPERSE ANTI-
GOVERNMENT PROTESTERS.
THE RESULTING STAMPEDE KILLED
MORE THAN 50 PEOPLE.
IT HAPPENED 25 MILES SOUTH OF
THE CAPITAL.
WITNESSES SAY PEOPLE WERE
CRUSHED TRYING TO FLEE THE
CHAOS.
A GOVERNMENT SPOKESMAN BLAMED,
"PEOPLE THAT PREPARED TO CAUSE
TROUBLE."
PROTESTERS DEMANDING GREATER
FREEDOMS HAVE BEEN KILLED IN
REPEATED CLASHES WITH ETHIOPIAN
POLICE IN THE LAST TWO YEARS.
AFRICAN-AMERICANS ARE USING
D.N.A. TESTS TO LEARN ABOUT
THEIR HERITAGE, LONG OBSCURED BY
SLAVERY.
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
FINALLY THE END OF AN ERA IN
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL.
VINCE SCULLY PLAY-BY-PLAY
ANNOUNCER FOR THE PAST 67 YEARS
CALLED HIS LAST GAME TONIGHT.
THE 88 YEAR OLD SCULLY CALLED
MORE THAN 9,000 GAMES.
AND DICK CALLED HIS LAST GAME
WINDING OPPOSITION DECADES AS A
SPORTSCASTER.
ON THE FIELD BOSTON RED SOX
DAVID ORTIZ PLAYED HIS LAST
SEASON HOME GAME CONSIDERED THE
BEST DESIGNATED EVER.
HE HOPES TO LEAD THE RED SOX TO
ANOTHER WORLD SERIES.
ON TOMORROW'S NEWSHOUR, HOW THE
LIVES OF VICE PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES MIKE PENCE AND TIM
KAINE BEGIN IN SIMILAR PLACES
BUT ENDED UP ON VERY DIFFERENT
TICKETS.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.